ACM SIGCOMM Workshop on Mobile Gaming

Mon 13 Aug 2012

Helsinki, Finland 

While they are a relatively new phenomenon, games on smartphones have become wildly popular with 
users. Games consistently dominate the top purchases on mobile app marketplaces. With the intense 
competition that has ensued in this industry, games are now rapidly incorporating sophisticated 
technologies that have been adapted to the mobile computing environment, many of which are of 
growing importance to researchers. There are many research challenges across graphics, energy 
consumption, network latency, HCI, security, and sensor networking. While this field is interdisciplinary 
by nature, many proposed ideas have direct impact on how networking protocols and infrastructures 
are designed and managed.

In this first Mobile Gaming workshop at SIGCOMM, we will bring together practitioners as well as 
interested researchers to discuss the latest developments in this growing field. We will identify what we 
have already achieved, the challenges that lie ahead, and promising avenues forward. Topics of interest 
include, but are not limited to: 

• cheating in networked mobile games
• reducing the energy consumption of mobile games
• increasing the quality of graphics on phones
• tolerating limited bandwidth and high latency on wireless links in games
• impact of device limitations on mobile game players
• mobile games that interact with other devices in the vicinity such as TVs, sensors, and other phones
• protocols and architectural designs or concerns for next generation mobile games
• optimizing game servers and transport for mobile users
• cross-device gaming (e.g. phones, slates, PCs, consoles)
• novel game types and/or interaction modalities
• matchmaking for mobile multiplayer games
• detailed traffic measurements or usability studies of mobile games
• massively multiplayer mobile gaming

All submissions must be original work not under review at any other workshop, conference, or journal. 
The workshop will accept papers describing completed work as well as work-in-progress, so long as the 
promise of the approach is demonstrated. Radical ideas or position papers, potentially of a controversial 
nature, are strongly encouraged. Submissions must be no greater than 6 pages in length and author 
names and affiliations should be included in the submission. Submissions must follow the formatting 
guidelines at http://conferences.sigcomm.org/sigcomm/2012/

Workshop Chairs
Sharad Agarwal (Microsoft Research)
Rajesh Krishna Balan (Singapore Management University)

Program Committee
Sharad Agarwal (Microsoft Research)
Aditya Akella (U. Wisconsin-Madison)
Rajesh Balan (Singapore Management University)
Suman Banerjee (U. Wisconsin-Madison)
David Chu (Microsoft Research)
Janne Lindqvist (Rutgers University)
April Slayden Mitchell (Hewlett-Packard Labs)
Jeffrey Pang (AT&T Labs)
Junehwa Song (KAIST)
Lin Zhong (Rice University)

Important dates:
Submission deadline: 15 March 2012
Author notification: 15 May 2012
Camera ready: 1 June 2012
Workshop: 13 August 2012

URL for submission: https://apollo.smu.edu.sg/mobigames12/
